README.md, before:

# Ansible Role: Swap

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/ansible-role-swap.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/ansible-role-swap)

An Ansible Role that configures swap space on Linux.

## Requirements

None.

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    swap_file_path: /swapfile

The location of the swap file on the server.

    swap_file_size_mb: '512'

How large (in megabytes) to make the swap file.

    swap_swappiness: '60'

The `vm.swappiness` value to be configured in sysconfig.

    swap_file_state: present

If you wish to _remove_ your swapfile, and disable swap, set this to `absent`. Generally you'd probably want to set this to `present`.

    swap_file_create_command: "dd if=/dev/zero of={{ swap_file_path }} bs=1M count={{ swap_file_size_mb }}"

The command used to create the swap file. You could switch to using `fallocate` to write the swap file more quickly, though there may be inconsistencies if not writing the file with `dd`.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: all
    
      vars:
        swap_file_size_mb: '1024'
    
      roles:
        - geerlingguy.swap

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2018 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

Commit message:

Example for fallocate usage plus link to problem discussion
As referred to in #9 , give an example of how to use `fallocate` and link to discussion about why that may or may not be a good idea.

README.md, after:

# Ansible Role: Swap

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/ansible-role-swap.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/ansible-role-swap)

An Ansible Role that configures swap space on Linux.

## Requirements

None.

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    swap_file_path: /swapfile

The location of the swap file on the server.

    swap_file_size_mb: '512'

How large (in megabytes) to make the swap file.

    swap_swappiness: '60'

The `vm.swappiness` value to be configured in sysconfig.

    swap_file_state: present

If you wish to _remove_ your swapfile, and disable swap, set this to `absent`. Generally you'd probably want to set this to `present`.

    swap_file_create_command: "dd if=/dev/zero of={{ swap_file_path }} bs=1M count={{ swap_file_size_mb }}"

The command used to create the swap file. You could switch to using `fallocate` to write the swap file more quickly like this:

    swap_file_create_command: "fallocate --length {{ swap_file_size_mb }}MB {{ swap_file_path }}"
    
however that is not universally advised. See the [final paragraph in the NOTES section of the mkswap man page](https://manpages.debian.org/buster/util-linux/mkswap.8.en.html#NOTES) for a discussion.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: all
    
      vars:
        swap_file_size_mb: '1024'
    
      roles:
        - geerlingguy.swap

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2018 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).
